A bartender is working at a saloon, serving drinks to customers. After he fills a stereotypically Irish man's bucket with beer, Carrie Nation and her followers burst inside. They assault the Irish man...
The moon, painted with a smiling face hangs over a park at night. A young couple walking past a fence learn on a railing and look up. The moon smiles. They embrace, and the moon's smile gets bigger. T...
The film, just over a minute long, is composed of two shots. In the first, a girl sits at the base of an altar or tomb, her face hidden from the camera. At the center of the altar, a viewing portal di...
In the second shot, which runs just over eight seconds long, an assassin kneels feet of Lady Justice.
Lasting just 61 seconds and consisting of two shots, the first shot is set in a wood during winter. The actor representing then vice-president Theodore Roosevelt enthusiastically hurries down a hillsi...
The earliest known adaptation of the classic fairytale, this films shows Jack trading his cow for the beans, his mother forcing him to drop them in the front yard, and beig forced upstairs. As he slee...
Alice follows a large white rabbit down a "Rabbit-hole". She finds a tiny door. When she finds a bottle labeled "Drink me", she does, and shrinks, but not enough to pass through the door. She then eat...
She enters a kitchen, in which there is a cook and a woman holding a baby. She persuades the woman to give her the child and takes the infant outside after the cook starts throwing things around. The ...
The Queen invites Alice to join the "ROYAL PROCESSION": a parade of marching playing cards and others headed by the White Rabbit. When Alice "unintentionally offends the Queen", the latter summons the...
The film opens with two bandits breaking into a railroad telegraph office, where they force the operator at gunpoint to have a train stopped and to transmit orders for the engineer to fill the locomot...
Meanwhile, back in the telegraph office, the bound operator awakens, but he collapses again. His daughter arrives bringing him his meal and cuts him free, and restores him to consciousness by dousing ...
There is some comic relief at a dance hall, where an Eastern stranger is forced to dance while the locals fire at his feet. The door suddenly opens and the telegraph operator rushes in to tell them of...
The film is about a family who move to the suburbs, hoping for a quiet life. Things start to go wrong, and the wife gets violent and starts throwing crockery, leading to her arrest.
The opening scene shows the interior of the robbers' den. The walls are decorated with the portraits of notorious criminals and pictures illustrating the exploits of famous bandits. Some of the gang a...
The next scene shows the gang breaking into a barn. They steal ponies and ride away. Upon reaching the place agreed upon they picket their ponies and leaving them in charge of a trusted member proceed...
In the meantime the police have learned the particulars of the hold-up from the frightened passengers and have started up the railroad tracks after the fleeing robbers. The robbers are next seen ridin...
Scenes are introduced using lines of the poem.[2] Santa Claus, played by Harry Eytinge, is shown feeding real reindeer[4] and finishes his work in the workshop. Meanwhile, the children of a city house...
The Rarebit Fiend gorges on Welsh rarebit at a restaurant. When he leaves, he begins to get dizzy as he starts to hallucinate. He desperately tries to hang onto a lamppost as the world spins all aroun...
The film features a train traveling through the Rockies and a hold up created by two thugs placing logs on the line. They systematically rob the wealthy occupants at gunpoint and then make their getaw...
Irish villager Kathleen is a tenant of Captain Clearfield, who controls local judges and criminals. Her father owes Clearfield a large debt. Terence O'More saves the village from Clearfield, causing a...
Film historian Charles Musser writes of Porter's adaptation, "O'More not only rescues Kathleen from the villain but, through marriage, renews the family for another generation."[1]
Boone's daughter befriends an Indian maiden as Boone and his companion start out on a hunting expedition. While he is away, Boone's cabin is attacked by the Indians, who set it on fire and abduct Boon...
Before heading out to a baseball game at a nearby ballpark, sports fan Mr. Brown drinks several highball cocktails. He arrives at the ballpark to watch the game, but has become so inebriated that the ...
The plot is that of a black woman going to the dentist for a toothache and being given laughing gas. On her way walking home, and in other situations, she can't stop laughing, and everyone she meets "...
On a beautiful summer day a father and mother take their daughter Dollie on an outing to the river. The mother refuses to buy a gypsy's wares. The gypsy tries to rob the mother, but the father drives ...
A thug accosts a girl as she leaves her workplace but a man rescues her. The thug vows revenge and, with the help of two friends, attacks the girl and her rescuer again as they're going for a walk. Th...
A young couple decides to elope after being caught in the midst of a romantic moment by the woman's angry father. They make plans to leave, but a thief discovers their plans and hides in their trunk a...
A white girl (Florence Lawrence) rejects a proposal from an Indian brave (Charles Inslee) in this early one-reel Western melodrama. Despite the rejection, the Indian still comes to the girl's defense ...
No prints of the first American film adaptation of A Christmas Carol are known to exist,[1] but The Moving Picture World magazine provided a scene-by-scene description before the film's release.[2] Sc...
The film opens in a town on the Mexican border. A poker game is going on in the local saloon. One of the players cheats and is shot dead by another of the players, a Mexican named Pedro. In the uproar...
A rejected admirer sets up a trap to kill his sweetheart and her fiance before they married and then commit suicide, but before he passes away, he leaves a confession. Fortunately the confession is fo...
John Wharton, the husband of a true and trusting wife and father of an eight-year-old girl, through the association of rakish companions becomes addicted to the drink habit, and while the demon rum ha...
An old woman sends a girl begging in the streets of Paris on a snowy evening. Callous revelers pass her by, and she falls asleep before one donor finally drops a golden Louis in her shoe. A gambler wi...
The story as told by Moving Picture World reads:
Mary Pickford plays Priscilla an unemployed maid who finds work at a farm. There she meets a no-good peddler who starts flirting with her and makes her fall in love with him. He runs up a gambling bil...
The day before Christmas, Ebenezer Scrooge refuses to contribute to the Charity Relief Committee, and then rudely rejects his nephew Fred when he visits Scrooge in his office. When Scrooge returns hom...
Described as "a liberal adaptation of Mrs. Shelley's famous story", the plot description in the Edison Kinetogram was:[3]
Hemlock Hoax is a detective who has little respect in the small tropical town where he lives, despite the fact that he thinks he is a better sleuth than Sherlock Holmes. A pair of boys decide to play ...
During the American Civil War a young soldier loses his nerve in battle and runs away to his home to hide; his sister puts on his uniform, takes her brother's place in the battle, and is killed. Their...
An Irish boy (Olcott) emigrates to America to escape the desperate poverty of Ireland. After finding work in construction, he finds success in politics. He returns to Ireland after receiving a letter ...
Though the film is presumed lost, a synopsis survives in The Moving Picture World from October 15, 1910. It states: "Captain John Smith comes to America as the head of a band of English colonists and ...
Ramona chronicles the romance between Ramona (Mary Pickford), a Spanish orphan from the prestigious Moreno family, and Alessandro (Henry B. Walthall), an Indian who appears on her family's ranch one d...
The film opens upon two sisters (Martha, played by Mary Pickford, and Millie, played by Gertrude Robinson) standing in a field of daisies. Millie plucks the petals off of one to divine whether he love...
Arriving at the homestead, she immediately resolves to return to the waterfall. At their second meeting, the gypsy greets Martha with open arms and after some animated entreaties she meets his embrace...
Millie, in the meantime, has bounced home and back to the waterfall, where the gypsy bids her to sit on a conveniently-placed bench. Martha wanders back to the waterfall (via the orchard), where she i...
The gypsy flees through the field of daisies as a growing mob of farmhands set out looking for him. After passing through an overgrown field and over the brook, the gypsy arrives at the orchard. Marth...
In Kansas, Dorothy and Imogene the cow are chased by a mule, and the farmhands draw their muskets at the beast. Dorothy runs off to their field and discovers that the family scarecrow is alive. The Sc...
In Oz, The Wizard in the Emerald City declares that he is retiring from being the ruler and he will be crowning a new leader. The wicked witch Momba appears and attacks the wizard and the paper dissap...
The traveler's continue onward and find the Tin Woodsman. They oil him and find Eureka the cat. When they enter a forest, Momba the Witch flies out the window as her soldiers come out of the cottage, ...
Though the film is presumed lost, a synopsis survives in The Moving Picture World from January 7, 1911. It states, "Miss Street's Seminary for Girls has a very ambitious class of pupils. The young ath...
The novel is set in the reign of "old King Henry VI" (14221461, 14701471) and during the Wars of the Roses (14551487). The story begins with the Tunstall Moat House alarm bell, rung to summon recruits...
As they travel through Tunstall Forest, Joanna tries to persuade Dick to turn against Sir Daniel in sympathy with the Black Arrow outlaws, whose camp they discover near the ruins of Grimstone manor. T...
The second half of the novel, Books 35, tells how Dick rescues Joanna from Sir Daniel with the help of both the Black Arrow fellowship and the Yorkist army led by Richard Crookback, the future Richard...
While shadowing Sir Daniel, Dick and the outlaws encounter another group of spies interested in Joanna. After a skirmish in which the outlaws prevail, Dick finds that he has conquered Joanna's lawful ...
Richard Crookback, Duke of Gloucester, makes his appearance in Book 5. As Dick is leaving Shoreby he sees Crookback holding his own against seven or eight Lancastrian assailants, and assists his victo...
In the early morning of his wedding day Dick encounters a fugitive Sir Daniel trying to enter Holywood seaport to escape to France or Burgundy. Because it is his wedding day, Dick does not want to soi...
The story deals with Tom Brown's efforts to save his fiance's "black sheep" brother Wilfred Kenyon from disgrace. An unfortunate state of affairs exists between Wilfred and Marion Thorne, the sister o...
The film is a period drama taking place right before the start of the American Civil War. A young Southern girl chooses between two suitors. She chooses the man who goes to fight Stars and Bars of the...
"David Copperfield consists of three reels and as three separate films, released in three consecutive weeks, with three different titles: The Early Life of David Copperfield, Little Em'ly and David Co...
The film begins with Jack Sparks, a young American, who is traveling in Turkey. He befriends an aged Turk during a carriage ride and the Turk invites Jack into his home. The man smokes from a hookah a...
The Pasha'a daughter, Murana, finds him hiding and orders her servant to assist in Jack's escape. Guards appear and announce that they are looking for the escaped prisoner, but they are turned away. D...
Polly Biblett (Mary Pickford), a young lady, tells her grandmother Lettie about her new boyfriend. The news provokes the elderly woman to reminisce about her own sweetheart, long time before. The touc...
The story concerns a soldier who deserts his regiment and encounters a wagon train of settlers. When finding an attack by American Indians is eminent, he returns to his unit in order to elicit help.
White-haired Dr. Jekyll has secretly locked himself in his laboratory administering himself with a vial of formula. He slumps into his chair with his head on his chest. Slowly, as the drug takes effec...
Joe is an impoverished New York newsboy who lives with his abusive grandmother. While selling papers, he is given a ticket for a children's excursion sponsored by the Fresh Air Fund.
The next morning, Joe sneaks out of his tenement home to join the excursion, where he sees the countryside and the ocean for the first time. After a picnic, an adult volunteer reads the children a sto...
When the group returns to the city, Joe stays behind because he is afraid of his grandmother. He wanders to the beach, where he finds a rowboat and decides to go to the Land Beyond the Sunset himself....
The film is about a poor married couple living in New York City. The husband works as a musician and must often travel for work. When returning, his wallet is taken by a gangster. His wife goes to a b...
Mollie Goodhue leads a cheerless, impoverished life, largely because of her stern, miserly father. Mrs. Goodhue is mortally ill, but before dying, she gives the minister, Preacher Bolton, some money w...
Mollie is delighted when the minister presents her with a fashionable New York hat she has been longing for, but village gossips misinterpret the minister's intentions and spread malicious rumors. Mol...
All ends well, however, after the minister produces a letter from Mollie's mother about the money she left the minister to spend on Mollie. Soon afterwards, he proposes to Mollie, who accepts his offe...
Only lasting 15 minutes, it is a light-hearted comedy about the battle between the sexes as several married couples go on a camp-out together. The women soon realize that the men expect them to do per...
The story is of an English manufacturing town {Huddersfield} in which Henry Little, a worker and inventor, is persecuted by trade unions, jealous because he was better trained than his fellows. Squire...
A physician's death orphans his two adolescent daughters. Their older brother is able to convert some of the doctor's small estate to cash. It is late in the day, and with the banks closed he stores t...
Dr. Friedrich von Kammacher (Olaf Fønss), a surgeon, is devastated after his wife develops a brain disorder and is institutionalized. On the advice of his parents, von Kammacher leaves Denmark to gain...
Aboard the ship, von Kammacher learns Ingigerd has a boyfriend with her and thus he backs down. Shortly after, he is called to treat a young Russian girl with seasickness and they nearly get romantica...
Halfway across the sea the Roland strikes an unseen object which causes massive flooding and dooms the ship. The passengers panic as the ship sinks into the Atlantic. Von Kammacher finds Ingigered pas...
Von Kammacher and Ingigerd arrive in New York and she is unable to continue with her career since she is still shocked over the Roland disaster. Von Kammacher tries to tell her that he loves her and w...
Barney Oldfield races a speeding locomotive to rescue a damsel in distress tied up on the tracks by evil villain Ford Sterling.
Bob, a typically devoted husband, is told by his wife that the stork has paid a visit to their household; the first time, it turns out to be a puppy; the second time, expecting another canine, he is s...
Cohen (Ford Sterling) and his rival Goldberg (Henry Lehrman) enlist in the Union Army during the American Civil War. Goldberg receives a lieutenants commission while Cohen becomes a sergeant. During t...
Dr. Henry Jekyll (King Baggot) sends a note to his fiancée, Alice (Jane Gail), and her father (Matt B. Snyder) to say that instead of accompanying them to the opera, he must give more time to his char...
The strange creature emerges from Jekylls room, bearing a note in Jekylls handwriting that orders the household staff to treat the stranger  Mr Hyde  as himself. Hyde then slips out into the night, te...
The doctor swears that he will abandon his experiments and never tempt fate again; but that night, without taking the drug, he turns spontaneously into Hyde.
The Evidence of the Film tells the story of a messenger boy at a film studio who is wrongfully accused of stealing bonds worth $20,000. He is saved by his sister, a film cutter, who comes across some ...
As described in a 1913 blurb: "The foreman of the sawmill misconstrues the disappearance of his ward who has taken drastic measures to protect her guardian's interests. A startling incident reveals th...
The setting is an early American village, where a young Quaker woman, Priscilla (played by Glaum), is in love with the schoolmaster, John Hart (played by Ray). The local minister, Rev. Cole (played by...
Priscilla refuses to comply with the law and is arrested. After being plunged in and out of water and pilloried, she is banished from the colony. John goes with her. They are attacked by Indians and J...
The Rev. Cole, who has been mortally wounded, begs Priscilla's forgiveness and the Puritans make amends for their harsh treatment of her.[1]
The film begins with the Dreamer, a restless and disappointed dreamer who has a wife and child. He gazes at his hands and dreams of becoming a conqueror, but laments that no chance comes to him and co...
A telephone operator is walking out with a handsome police sergeant; her father insists that the husband for her is a plump, comfortable grocery store owner. The Lady picks up her jewels from the jewe...
A young man (Henry B. Walthall) falls in love with a beautiful woman (Blanche Sweet), but is prevented by his uncle (Spottiswoode Aitken) from pursuing her. Tormented by visions of death and suffering...
The young man's torment continues, this time caused by guilt over murdering his uncle, and he becomes sensitive to slight noises, like the tapping of a shoe or the crying of a bird. The ghost of his u...
Frank Andrews (Donald Crisp) is a well-to-do, middle class apartment dweller who is devoted to his wife (Mary Alden) and two children, John (Robert Harron) and Jane (Lillian Gish). Andrews enters into...
Chaplin and Sterling play two young men, Masher and Rival Masher, who fight over the chance to help a young woman (Clifton) cross a muddy street. Sterling first sees the woman trying to cross and offe...
Wealthy Edwin Peter Brewster disowns his son Robert when he marries Louise Sedgwick, a woman of modest means. Many years later, when Robert dies, however, E.P. Brewster leaves one million dollars to t...
In A Busy Day, a wife (played by an energetic Charlie Chaplin) becomes jealous of her husband's interest in another woman during a military parade. On her way to attack the couple, the wife interrupts...
Graehme, Ned Stewart's father was accused of adultery and killed being innocent. Ned decided to avenge his father, but got captured and sent to the long journey to death "la longue traverse". Fortunat...
A melodrama about an American who becomes a revolutionary leader battling evil government spies in Argentina. William Desmond Taylor portrays the title role, and Denis Gage Deane-Tanner, Taylor's youn...
Chaplin plays a waiter who fakes being a Greek Ambassador to impress a girl. He then is invited to a garden party where he gets in trouble with the girl's jealous boyfriend. Mabel Normand wrote and di...
